Archon is a collection of libraries and applications mostly focussed towards 3-D graphics.

Current plan
------------

Primary goal: OpenGL font rendering.
Secondary goal: Finish dithering and GIF-construction.
Tertiary goal: Get multicolored mouse cursor to work using XRender.
Quaternary goal: Get the ray tracer to work again.


Thread safty issues
-------------------

The following is assumed though not guranteed by standard C++:

The construction of static variables inside a function scope is atomic
and thread safe. That is, it is always done exactly once, and all
calling threads sees a completely constructed object.

Constant strings (and other copy-on-demand type objects) are thread
safe. That is, as long as a string is not modified in a logical sense,
it is safe for two threads to access it simultaneously. This includes
calling the 'c_str' method.

It is safe for one threads to access and modify a string that is a
copy of a string that is accessed and modified by another thread. The
same is true for other copy-on-demand type objects.

It is safe for two threads to simultaneously be terminated due to
exceptions being stopped by a 'throws' restriction.


Prerequisites
-------------

Ubuntu 13.04, 13.10, 16.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential automake libtool
    sudo apt-get install libreadline-dev libmagic-dev libfreetype6-dev
    sudo apt-get install libpng12-dev libtiff5-dev libnetpbm10-dev libmozjs185-dev
    sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev libxrender-dev libxi-dev

Ubuntu 10.04

    sudo apt-get install libreadline-dev libtiff4-dev libmagic-dev libnetpbm10-dev
    sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev


(Imminent)
The GNU MPFR Library (Multiple Precision Floating-Point Reliable Library)
Debian:
libmpfr-dev - multiple precision floating-point computation developers tools
libmpfr-doc - multiple precision floating-point computation documentation
libmpfr1ldbl - multiple precision floating-point computation

Apple Darwin (Macports):
  jpeg @8c_0 (active)
  spidermonkey @1.7.0_5 (active)


Essential guides/papers
-----------------------

Appendix D: What Every Computer Scientist Should Know About Floating-Point Arithmetic
http://docs.sun.com/source/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html
