Development of modern quantum mechanics


Full quantum mechanical theory

Werner Heisenberg developed the full quantum mechanical theory in 1925 at the young age of 24. Following his teacher, Niels Bohr, Werner Heisenberg began to work out a theory for the quantum behavior of electron orbitals. Because electron orbits could not be observed, Heisenberg went about creating a mathematical description of quantum mechanics built on what could be observed, that is, the light emitted from atoms in their atomic spectrum. He used a form of mathematics related to the mathematics of arrays of numbers known as "matrices." He worked from the observed atomic spectrum which only shows light emitted from electrons only at certain observed places. Instead of trying to explain every possible orbit, he began with the assumption that electron orbitals that cannot be observed in the spectrum do not exist. By this time it was known that the electron orbital was three-dimensional, but trying to work out the mathematics for a three-dimensional atom proved too complicated, so he imagined the electron orbital flattened out to one dimension. Heisenberg studied the electron orbital as a charged ball on a spring, an oscillator, whose motion was not quite regular called anharmonic. To see a picture of a charged ball on a spring see: Vibrating Charges. He used the laws of classical mechanics known in the macro world, then applied quantum properties which means discrete (non-continuous) properties to the motion which would leave the gaps between the orbitals so that the mathematics would represent only the observed electron orbitals. The multiplication in his formula resulted in a type of mathematics that was used in special arrays of numbers called matrices. This means in Heisenberg's quantum mechanical mathematics, the normal multiplication law of commutation where A x B = B X A didn't apply.

Heisenberg was approaching quantum mechanics from the particle-like perspective of an oscillating charged electron. Particles appeared to quantum jump due to Planck's constant which showed energy delivered in packets along the wave. Heisenberg was describing mathematically the intensity of a wave. The intensity is the energy per unit volume multiplied by the velocity at which the energy is moving. Amplitude is the maximum height of a wave crest or depth of a trough. Amplitudes of position and momentum that have a period of 2 pi like a cycle in a wave are called Fourier series variables. Heisenberg described the particle-like properties of the electron in a wave as having position and momentum in his matrix mechanics. When these amplitudes of position and momentum are measured and multiplied together, they give intensity. However, he found that when the position and momentum were multiplied together in that respective order, and then the momentum and position were multiplied together in that respective order, there was a difference or deviation in intensity between them of h/2π. As we have said earlier h/2π is h-bar and describes one cycle in the wave. Heisenberg wouldn't understand the reason for this deviation for two more years, but for the time being he understood that the math worked and was an exact description of the quantum behavior of the electron. Max Born reviewed Heisenberg's paper and recognized that this type of multiplication that couldn't be described by the property of commutation known in normal arithmetic was called matrix mathematics.

No one prior to this had applied this type of mathematics to quantum mechanics and Heisenberg's new matrix theory was able for the first time to fully calculate the quantum behavior of the electron and was later applied to all subatomic particles.


Wave Functions


Schroedinger wave equation

Because particles could be described as waves, later in 1925 Erwin Schroedinger analyzed what an electron would look like as a wave around the nucleus of the atom. He came up with a wave equation that describes each electron as having a wavefunction. He thus showed that the atom was not at all like a miniature solar system, but that the electron in a hydrogen atom was more like a wave that covered the entire sphere of its orbital all at once meaning it was three-dimensional. Each electron has its own unique wavefunction described in Schroedinger's equation by three properties (later Paul Dirac added a fourth). The three properties were 1.) which orbital meaning closer to the nucleus with less energy or further from the nucleus with more energy, 2.) the shape of the orbital meaning that orbitals were not just spherical but changed shapes, and 3.) the magnetic moment of the orbital which is a type of energy caused by the charge of the electron as it rotates around the nucleus.

These three properties were called collectively the wavefunction of the electron and are said to describe the quantum state of the electron. "Quantum state" means the collective properties of the electron describing what we can say about its condition at a given time. For the electron, the quantum state is described by its wavefunction which is designated in physics by the greek letter ψ (psi pronounced "sigh"). The three properties of Schroedinger's equation that describe the wavefunction of the electron and therefore also describe the quantum state of the electron as described in the previous paragraph are each called quantum numbers. The first property which describes the orbital was numbered according to Bohr's model where n is the letter used to describe the energy of each orbital. This is called the principal quantum number. The next quantum number that describes the shape of the orbital is called the azimuthal quantum number and it is represented by the letter l (lower case L). The shape is caused by the angular momentum of the orbital. Angular momentum measures an object's tendency to continue to spin. The azimuthal quantum number "l" represents the orbital angular momentum of the electron around the nucleus. However the shape of each orbital has its own letter as well. So for the letter "l" there are other letters to describe the shapes of "l". The first shape is spherical and is described by the letter s. The next shape is like a dumbbell and is described by the letter p. The other shapes of orbitals become more complicated and are described by the letters d, f, and g. The third quantum number of Schroedinger's equation describes the magnetic moment of the electron and is designated by the letter m and sometimes as the letter m with a subscript l because the magnetic moment depends upon the second quantum number l.

In May 1926 Schrödinger published a proof that Heisenberg's matrix mechanics and Shroedinger's wave mechanics gave equivalent results: mathematically they were the same theory. Both men claimed to have the superior theory. Heisenberg insisted on the existence of discontinuous quantum jumps in his particle-like examination of the oscillation of a charged electron giving more precise definitions and Schroedinger insisted that a theory based on continuous wave-like properties which he called "matter-waves" was better.


Uncertainty Principle

In 1927, Heisenberg made a new discovery from his quantum theory that had further practical consequences of this new way of looking at matter and energy on the atomic scale. In Heisenberg's matrix mechanics formula, Heisenberg had encountered an error or difference of h/2π between position and momentum. This represented a deviation of one radian of a cycle when the particle-like aspects of the wave were examined. Heisenberg analyzed this difference of one radian of a cycle and divided the difference or deviation of one radian equally between the measurement of position and momentum. This had the consequence of being able to describe the electron as a point particle in the center of one cycle of a wave so that its position would have a standard deviation of plus or minus one-half of one radian of the cycle (1/2 of h-bar). A standard deviation can be either plus or minus the measurement i.e. it can add to the measurement or subtract from it. In three-dimensions a standard deviation is a displacement in any direction. What this means is that when a moving particle is viewed as a wave it is less certain where the particle is. In fact, the more certain the position of a particle is known, the less certain the momentum is known. This conclusion came to be called "Heisenberg's Indeterminacy Principle," or Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. To understand the real idea behind the uncertainty principle imagine a wave with its undulations, its crests and troughs, moving along. A wave is also a moving stream of particles, so you have to superimpose a stream of particles moving in a straight line along the middle of the wave. An oscillating ball of charge creates a wave larger than its size depending upon the length of its oscillation. Therefore, the energy of a moving particle is as large as the cycle of the wave, but the particle itself has a location. Because the particle and the wave are the same thing, then the particle is really located somewhere in the width of the wave. Its position could be anywhere from the crest to the trough. The math for the uncertainty principle says that the measurement of uncertainty as to the position of a moving particle is one-half the width from the crest to the trough or one-half of one radian of a cycle in a wave.

For moving particles in quantum mechanics, there is simply a certain degree of exactness and precision that is missing. You can be precise when you take a measurement of position and you can be precise when you take a measurement of momentum, but there is an inverse imprecision when you try to measure both at the same time as in the case of a moving particle like the electron. In the most extreme case, absolute precision of one variable would entail absolute imprecision regarding the other.

The consequences of the uncertainty principle were that the electron could no longer be considered as in an exact location in its orbital. Rather the electron had to be described by every point where the electron could possibly inhabit. By creating points of probable location for the electron in its known orbital, this created a cloud of points in a spherical shape for the orbital of a hydrogen atom which points gradually faded out nearer to the nucleus and farther from the nucleus. This is called a probability distribution. Therefore, the Bohr atom number n for each orbital became known as an n-sphere in the three dimensional atom and was pictured as a probability cloud where the electron surrounded the atom all at once.

This led to the further description by Heisenberg that if you were not making measurements of the electron that it could not be described in one particular location but was everywhere in the electron cloud at once. In other words, quantum mechanics cannot give exact results, but only the probabilities for the occurrence of a variety of possible results. Heisenberg went further and said that the path of a moving particle only comes into existence once we observe it. However, strange and counter-intuitive this may seem, quantum mechanics however does tell us the location of the electron's orbital, its probability cloud. Heisenberg was speaking of the particle itself, not its orbital which is in a known probability distribution.

Classical physics had shown since Newton that if you know the position of stars and planets and details about their motions that you can predict where they will be in the future. For subatomic particles, Heisenberg denied this notion showing that due to the uncertainty principle one cannot know the precise position and momentum of a particle at a given instant, so its future motion cannot be determined, but only a range of possibilities for the future motion of the particle can be described.

These notions arising from the uncertainty principle only arise at the subatomic level and were a consequence of wave-particle duality. As counter-intuitive as they may seem, quantum mechanical theory with its uncertainty principle has been responsible for major improvements in the world's technology from computer components to fluorescent lights to brain scanning techniques.


Wavefunction collapse

Schroedinger's wave equation with its unique wavefunction for a single electron is also spread out in a probability distribution like Heisenberg's quantized particle-like electron. This is because a wave is naturally a widespread disturbance and not a point particle. Therefore, Schroedinger's wave equation has the same predictions made by the uncertainty principle because uncertainty of location is built into the definition of a widespread disturbance like a wave. Uncertainty only needed to be defined from Heisenberg's matrix mechanics because the treatment was from the particle-like aspects of the electron. Schroedinger's wave equation shows that the electron is in the probability cloud at all times in its probability distribution as a wave that is spread out. Therefore, in Schroedinger's equation when you measure the position of an electron, it ceases to have wave-like properties. Without wave-like properties, none of Schroedinger's definitions of the electron being wave-like make sense anymore. The measurement of the position of the particle nullifies the wave-like properties and Schroedinger's equation then fails. Because the electron can no longer be described by its wavefunction when measured due to it becoming particle-like, this is called wavefunction collapse.


Eigenstates and eigenvalues

The term eigenstate is derived from the German word "eigen," which means "inherent" or "characteristic." The word eigenstate is descriptive of the measured state of some entity that possesses quantifiable characteristics such as position, momentum, etc. The state being measured and described must be an "observable" (i.e. something that can be observed and measured like position or momentum), and must have a definite value. In the everyday world, it is natural and intuitive to think of everything being in its own eigenstate. Everything appears to have a definite position, a definite momentum, a definite value of measure, and a definite time of occurrence. However, quantum mechanics affirms that it is impossible to pinpoint exact values for the momentum of a certain particle like an electron in a given location at a particular moment in time, or, alternatively, that it is impossible to give an exact location for such an object when the momentum has been measured. Due to the inevitable disturbance of the entity being measured by the very act of measurement, statements regarding both the position and momentum of particles can only be given in terms of a range of probabilities, a "probability distribution." Eliminating uncertain in one term maximizes uncertainty in regard to the second parameter.

Therefore it became necessary to have a way to clearly formulate the difference between the state of something that is uncertain in the way just described, such as an electron in a probability cloud, and effectively contrast it to the state of something that is not uncertain, something that has a definite value. When something is in the condition of being definitely "pinned-down" in some regard, it is said to possess an eigenstate. If the position of, e.g., an electron has been made definite, it is said to have an eigenstate of position.

A definite value, such as the position of an electron that has been successfullly located, is called the eigenvalue of the eigenstate of position. The German word "eigen" was first used in this context by the mathematician David Hilbert in 1904. Schroedinger's wave equation gives wavefunction solutions, meaning the possibilities where the electron might be, just as does Heisenberg's probability distribution. As stated above, when a wavefunction collapse occurs because something has been done to locate the position of an electron, the electron's state becomes an eigenstate of position, meaning that the position has a known value.


Dirac wave equation

In 1928, Paul Dirac worked out a variation of Schroedinger's equation that accounted for a fourth property of the electron in its orbital. There was a doublet meaning a pair of lines in the spectrum of a hydrogen atom that was unaccounted for. This meant that there was more energy in the electron orbital from magnetic moment than had previously been described. Wolfgang Pauli when studying alkali metals had introduced what he called a "two-valued quantum degree of freedom" associated with the electron in the outermost shell. This led to the Pauli Exclusion Principle that predicted that no more than two electrons can inhabit the same orbital. It also predicted that any neutron, electron, or proton (types of fermions) could not exist in the same quantum state. We learned in Schroedinger's equation that there were three quantum states of the electron, but if two electrons could be in the same orbital, there had to be another quantum number to distinguish those two electrons from each other and to describe the extra magnetic moment shown in the atomic spectrum. In early 1925, the young physicist Ralph Kronig had introduced a theory to Pauli that the electron rotates in space in the same way that the earth rotates on its axis. This would account for the missing magnetic moment and allow for two electrons in the same orbital to be different if their spin was in opposite directions to each other thus satisfying the Exclusion Principle. So Paul Dirac introduced the fourth quantum number called the spin quantum number designated by the letter s to the new Dirac equation of the wavefunction of the electron. In 1930, Dirac combined Heisenberg's matrix mechanics with Schroedinger's wave mechanics into a single quantum mechanical representation in his Principles of Quantum Mechanics. The quantum picture of the electron was now complete.

All of the above development of quantum theory was based mainly on the spectroscopy|atomic spectrum of the hydrogen atom. This is due to the fact that each atom of each element produces a unique pattern of spectral lines when light from each different kind of element is passed through a prism. Scientists could not study the electron and nucleus of the atom itself because they cannot be seen. Even today with High-resolution Scanning Tunneling Electron Microscopes we can only get images of the atom as a blurry fuzzball. However, the spectral lines of the atom reveal the orbits of electrons and the energy that can be expected. It was basically this study of the spectroscopic analysis of first the hydrogen atom and then the helium atom that led to quantum theory. Therefore, the mathematical formula were made to fit the picture of the atomic spectrum. That is why quantum mechanics is sometimes referred to as a form of mathematical physics.


Quantum entanglement

However, it took a great mind to challenge quantum mechanics and to further define a concept hidden in Heisenberg's quantum theory. That mind was Albert Einstein who rejected Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. Collectively, Heisenberg's quantum mechanics based on Bohr's initial explanation became known as the Copenhagen Interpretation of quantum mechanics by detractors. Einstein, in trying to show that it was not a complete theory, recognized that the theory predicted that two or more particles which have interacted in the past exhibit surprisingly strong correlations when various measurements are made on them. Einstein called this "spooky action at a distance". In 1935, Schroedinger published a paper explaining the argument which had been denoted the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) argument. Einstein showed that the Copenhagen Interpretation predicted quantum entanglement which he was trying to prove was incorrect in that it would defy physics. Quantum entanglement means that when there is a change in one particle at a distance from another particle then the other particle automatically changes to counter-balance the system. In quantum entanglement measuring one entangled particle defines its properties and seems to influence the properties of its partner or partners instantaneously no matter how far apart they are. Due to the fact that the two particles are entangled interaction on the one causes instantaneous effects on the other. Einstein had calculated that quantum theory would predict this, he saw it as a flaw and therefore challenged it. However, instead of showing a weakness in quantum mechanics, this forced quantum mechanics to acknowledge that quantum entanglement did in fact exist and it became another foundation theory of quantum mechanics.

There is a lot of controversy over quantum mechanics, historically, by physicists involved in the theory themselves. It is because the theory was sort of an ad hoc theory to make mathematics that fit the measurements of the atomic spectrum that it is so controversial and has been attacked by Albert Einstein, Erwin Shroedinger, Alfred Lande and many other physicists involved in its development. The theory itself was a shot in the dark similar to the Ptolemian earth-centered solar system. The system of Ptolemy was a great theory with the earth at the center. It worked very well to predict all the movements of the planets with great accuracy even including retrograde motion. In fact, when Copernicus came up with his sun-centered solar system model, it didn't predict the position of the planets nearly as well as the earth-centered system because Copernicus still used absolutely circular orbits. It wasn't until Galileo saw through the telescope that Venus went through all its phases that it could be proven beyond a doubt that the sun was at the center. Today Quantum Mechanics works like Ptolemy's earth-centered solar system. It may not be reality (even according to Niels Bohr), but it sure predicts things very well. Once a better microscope (analogous to Galileo's telescope) is invented that can actually see the atomic structure, quantum mechanics will probably be overturned. There is so much information on the controversy over quantum mechanics that it would make an interesting article just quoting the physicists who invented it and Einstein who rejected many of its principles. However, quantum mechanics is so extremely useful in predicting outcomes at the atomic level in our present state of technology that it probably won't be revised for some time to come.
